hi i'm steven with alberta urban garden
dot CA
welcome to my garden so we've built this
trellis and we've planted the grapes now
it's time to start to train the grapes
along the trellis so that you can get
some some good spread and some good
production there's a couple of different
products that you can use you can use
twine that's that's perfectly fine you
can use twist eyes you can use all sorts
of things I choose to use two different
products that I actually pick up at the
garden store one is a velcro tape and
all this does is velcro's onto itself it
works quite well and the other is a
greenhouse tape and this works as well
you just break a little bit off tie it
up and it doesn't deteriorate as fast in
the Sun that's you know stretchy and
forgiving I prefer the greenhouse or the
the velcro tape because you can you can
adjust it and it's there's nothing lost
it's a little less harmful on the plant
so what we're gonna try to do is we're
gonna try to send one runner on the
lower wire that way
the main went up and hopefully we'll get
some side shoots and one on the lower
trellis the other way so that we can
kind of maximize the area that it's
getting the Sun and covering up our our
fence here so why don't you come in
closer and I'll show you how I'm gonna
do this and some of the neat little
things that grapes do to climb so grapes
put out these little things and most
vines do this it's called a tendril
these things are an amazingly tough and
once they wind on there they they can
take quite a quite a bit of abuse so
what we're actually gonna do is that
this has already grabbed it but we want
to really align this up nicely so that
it runs along the cable and we're just
going to take this velcro tape and not
tight you don't want to ever make it too
tight if you make it too tight it can
either strangle the plant or during a
windstorm it can break the plant you
want to leave it a little bit of play so
we're just going to extend this as much
as we can and wrap the
and roll around in this growth tip we're
going to continue to attach so that it
grows along this side so the main growth
tip we're just going to actually tie
with this greenhouse tape to of the
bamboo now any little Newkirk rabbit
crevice those tendrils will grab it this
will just help continue to Train it
vertically because this the main one
will be a very important part of our
perennial grape over the long run
so we just want to Snug that up again
leaving a little bit of space so that it
can climb vertically so this left lead
is we tried to orient it as best we
could
but if pushing out quite a bit further
from the trellis than we'd like so all
I'm gonna do is I've already attached
the lead to the trellis wire I'm just
gonna use this bamboo temporarily to I'm
gonna sneak that behind so to provide
tension to continue to train this
towards the trellis wire and that should
help keep it growing that way even in
the wind it doesn't need to be tight
doesn't need to be attached here it'll
just continue to Train this gently the
direction that we would like it just
adjust that and for now until this is
trained same way that I want it I'm
going to do so I'm gonna detach this
just a little bit tighter than I
normally would and that is to keep this
going and we've already attached it the
right leader to the trellis we just now
need to train it down to run along it so
you want to do this as it's growing to
make sure that you're not it's as
flexible as possible and just attach it
like that
so the grapes have been in the ground
for about six weeks now and we've been
training them using the velcro tape one
out on each side one vertical and when
this one gets to the top we'll actually
pinch it and okay and hopefully it'll
send some side shoots so we've we've let
the grape establish for six weeks what
we need to do now is actually clear out
the underbrush here so basically any any
of these branches that are not going
anywhere that aren't on the main trellis
we're gonna take off and that what
that'll do is that'll force root growth
and that'll also force the vertical
growth all the energy into the the
branches we want so as painful as this
is you just take your pruners and clip
now you don't want to compost this that
there's there's a better chance of
having problems if you do compost it
because of scale insects so I have
noticed some damage on these of skin
from scale insects and we just need to
take care of it early on as we can and
protect ourselves so we're also gonna
take off any damaged leaves and briefs
are amazingly resilient plants that this
plant will bounce back not a problem at
all from this keeping the bottom clear
what this does is it keeps air flow and
from the humidity and the moisture in
the ground to the leaves the better
there's air flow here they less likely
it will be that an infection of any sort
will actually hit the rest of the grapes
which is also why we have it a foot off
of the the fence so that it has air flow
so we've now clean this one up we'll
continue to train them vertically and
horizontally throughout the summer and
then that's pretty well in we're going
to continue to feed this nice mulch uh
you know compost tea weak organic
fertilizer throughout the summer to help
push its roots because they're really in
order for us to overwinter we want to
make sure that it's got good tough roots
in it so I just wanted to say thank you
very much for spending some time with me
today
I appreciate it very much and I really
hope you have a great day